1)Self Certification
Regulatory formalities requiring compliance with various labour and environment laws are time
consuming and difficult in nature. Often, new and small firms are unaware of nuances of the issues and
can be subjected to intrusive action by regulatory agencies.
Startups shall be allowed to self-certify compliance with 9 labour
and environment laws.


2. Start-up India hub
An all-India hub will be created as a single contact point for start-up foundations in India, which will help the entrepreneurs to exchange knowledge and access financial aid. Many Startups do not
reach their full potential due to limited guidance and access.

3)Mobile App or Portal

In order to commence operations, Startups require registration with relevant regulatory authorities.
Delays or lack of clarity in registration process may lead to delays in establishment and operations of
Startups, thereby reducing the ability of the business to get bank loans, employ workers and generate
incomes. Enabling registration process in an easy and timely manner can reduce this burden
significantly.


4. Patent protection
A fast-track system for patent examination at lower costs is being conceptualised by the central government. The system will promote awareness and adoption of the Intellectual Property Rights (IPRs) by the start-up foundations.

5. Rs 10,000 crore fund

The government will develop a fund with an initial corpus of Rs 2,500 crore and a total corpus of Rs 10,000 crore over four years, to support upcoming start-up enterprises. The Life Insurance Corporation of India will play a major role in developing this corpus. A committee of private professionals selected from the start-up industry will manage the fund.

6. National Credit Guarantee Trust Company

Debt funding to Startups is also perceived as high risk area and to encourage Banks and other Lenders
to provide Venture Debts to Startups, Credit guarantee mechanism through National Credit
Guarantee Trust Company (NCGTC)/ SIDBI is being envisaged with a budgetary Corpus of INR 500
crore per year for the next four years.

7.No Capital Gains Tax
Due to their high risk nature, Startups are not able to attract investment in their initial stage. It is
therefore important that suitable incentives are provided to investors for investing in the Startup
ecosystem. With this objective, exemption shall be given to persons who have capital gains during the
year, if they have invested such capital gains in the Fund of Funds recognized by the Government. 


8. No Income Tax for three years

During the initial years, budding entrepreneurs struggle to evaluate the feasibility of their business idea.
Significant capital investment is made in embracing ever-changing technology, fighting rising
competition and navigating through the unique challenges arising from their venture. Also, there are
limited alternative sources of finance available to the small and growing entrepreneurs, leading to
constrained cash funds.
With a view to stimulate the development of Startups in India and provide them a competitive
platform, it is imperative that the profits of Startup initiatives are exempted from income-tax for a
period of 3 years. This fiscal exemption shall facilitate growth of business and meet the working capital
requirements during the initial years of operations. The exemption shall be available subject to
non-distribution of dividend by the Startup

9. Tax exemption for investments of higher value

In case of an investment of higher value than the market price, it will be exempt from paying tax
10. Building entrepreneurs

Innovation-related study plans for students in over 5 lakh schools. Besides, there will also be an annual incubator grand challenge to develop world class incubators.

11. Atal Innovation Mission

The Atal Innovation Mission will be launched to boost innovation and encourage talented youths.

12. Setting up incubators

A private-public partnership model is being considered for 35 new incubators and 31 innovation centres at national institutes.

13. Research parks

The government plans to set up seven new research parks, including six in the Indian Institute of Technology campuses and one in the Indian Institute of Science campus, with an investment of Rs 100 crore each.

14. Entrepreneurship in biotechnology

The government will further establish five new biotech clusters, 50 new bio incubators, 150 technology transfer offices and 20 bio-connect offices in the country.

15. Dedicated programmes in schools

The government will introduce innovation-related programems for students in over 5 lakh schools.

16. Legal Support and Fast-tracking Patent Examination at
Lower Costs

A panel of facilitators will provide legal support and assistance in submitting patent applications and other official documents.
To promote awareness and adoption of IPRs by Startups and facilitate them in protecting and
commercializing the IPRs by providing access to high quality Intellectual Property services and
resources, including fast-track examination of patent applications and rebate in fees



12. Setting up incubators

A private-public partnership model is being considered for 35 new incubators and 31 innovation centres at national institutes.

16. Legal support

A panel of facilitators will provide legal support and assistance in submitting patent applications and other official documents.
To promote awareness and adoption of IPRs by Startups and facilitate them in protecting and
commercializing the IPRs by providing access to high quality Intellectual Property services and
resources, including fast-track examination of patent applications and rebate in fees.